
 # Predicting Spotify Song Popularity
https://github.com/MattD82/Predicting-Spotify-Song-Popularity

Music has always been an integral part of my life. I can still remember the first time I heard the band Phish in high school, and from there something ‘clicked’, and my musical tastes branched out widely from just alt-rock to jazz, funk, progressive rock, bluegrass, and many other genres.

However, my personal musical tastes often differ quite drastically from what is popular in the mainstream. As such, I have always been fascinated by  **why**  certain songs are popular. I.e., what is it about certain songs that causes them to have billions of listens?

Spotify is a digital music service that enables users to remotely source millions of different songs on various record labels from a laptop, smartphone or other device. To recommend new music to users, and to be able to internally classify songs, Spotify assigns each song values from 13 different attributes/features. These features are mostly numerical values, but include some categorical data as well (the key the song is in, for instance). Spotify also assigns each song a popularity score, based on total number of clicks/listens.

I discovered a Kaggle dataset of 100,000+ songs from Spotify (located  [here](https://www.kaggle.com/tomigelo/spotify-audio-features/home)), which includes a popularity score and set of metrics/attributes for each song. From looking through that data, I thought there might be a very interesting opportunity to take a deep dive into what attributes make a song popular.


# Spotify Popularity Prediction
https://github.com/twillstw/Spotify-Popularity-Prediction
A supervised machine learning project that attempts to build a model capable of predicting a song's popularity using audio features provided by the Spotify database.

For the full project, check out the Jupyter notebook titled Predicting_Song_Popularity.ipynb. For a more high-level overview, check out the pdf files.

Additionally, the reports folder contains notebooks with further details and analysis for the various stages of the project.

**Summary**

This project uses different approaches, including linear regression and classification, to try and predict which songs are popular. Using ensemble methods, a final accuracy of 86% was achieved and a recall of 0.76 for predicting songs of the popular class.

# Song Popularity Predictor
https://github.com/stephenjkaplan/song-popularity-predictor

Play around with the model and make predictions using the  [web app](https://song-popularity-predictor.herokuapp.com/)  I made using  [Streamlit](https://www.streamlit.io/).

Read the  [blog post](https://stephenjkaplan.github.io/2020/07/17/predicting-song-popularity/).

# predict-popularity-spotify-songs

(https://github.com/Timonsc/predict-popularity-spotify-songs)

#### Abstract

This was a project for a course called Data Valorization. We participated in a Kaggle Challenge where we aimed to predict the popularity of the songs based on features generated by spotify. This was part of a business case where a producer could test a album on the most popular songs for optimal marketing of the album. I wrote a script to mine more data, particularly unpopular songs from the artists in the dataset such that we can more specifically find out what features make the difference between a popular song and unpopular song.

In this project we made a lot of mistakes and learned a lot from them. For example, the assumption that a song is popular (1) or unpopular (0) is quite risky. This project needed a lot of hacking and data strangling, the Spotify API did not deliver very consistent data. Ultimately, the data set was very small and we should have considered that more in out choice of predictive methods.

# Song_Popularity_Prediction
(https://github.com/NYU-CDS-Capstone-Project/Song_Popularity_Prediction)

Given a track before it is released to the public, how do we know if it would be a “hit” song on Spotify, which is the biggest music streaming platform that has 170 million worldwide users? Without any marketing strategy or promotion, only from the track attributes: title, artist, producers, lyrics, melodies, is it sufficient to predict its success?

We are using machine learning techniques to take 14k Warner Music songs and lyrics and trying to predict their popularity on Spotify.

# FMA [Song-Popularity]

(https://github.com/addt/Song-Popularity)

In this project we seek to understand what makes a song popular, and specifically if one can predict the popularity of a song based on its audio features and metadata. While the virality of a song might depend on many social factors, such as the effectiveness of its marketing campaign and demographics of its listeners, we hypothesize that the inherent characteristics of a song, such as its name and extracted musical features can also be correlated to and indicative of its popularity.

To further explore this question, we will first define what popularity means within the context of the dataset. We will then build a baseline model to predict a song’s popularity, using its audio features and metadata available from the dataset. From there we will expand and refine our model to answer three main questions -

-   Item What’s the model’s overall performance on the test dataset? What are the most important features in determining a song’s popularity?
-   Item How much, if any, does its performance differ across different genres? How do feature importances differ across genres?
-   Item What’s the external validity of the model? How does the model perform against songs not in the test dataset, e.g. songs from the Billboard Top 100?
-   Item (If time allows) Can we design better features to improve the overall performance of the model?

Understanding what factors contribute to a song’s popularity has practical significance in a few areas. It helps us better understand

-   Item How people evaluate music consciously and subconsciously,
-   Item How people’s preferences vary across genres, and
-   Item Any systematic differences in preferences between people who listen to songs on Free Music Archive and the general public.

Read INFO 251 - Final Project Proposal_v2-5.pdf for the entire project proposal.


# [Predict-Spotify-Popularity]

(https://github.com/daehyunk927/Predict-Spotify-Popularity)
## Will My Song Be Spotify Famous?

What makes a song popular is a complex question. Undoubtedly, external social factors such as the level of fame of an artist or a song’s social significance can impact its popularity. Internal musical attributes of a song, however, also play a critical role to its commercial success.

Our goal was to see how musical features themselves can predict a song’s popularity. We did this by using the 13 audio features as our predictor variables. We used Spotify’s “Song Popularity” variable as our response variable. Song popularity is a numeric value between 0-100 determined based on the number of plays and recentness of plays a song has received. For ease of use, the popularity in our model has been binned into 5 categories, 1-5, with being the most popular. Several predictive models of various types (Linear SVC, Random Forest, K Nearest Neighbors, etc.) were tested and the most accurate one was selected.

Lastly, we built a Flask App with HTML user interface such that a user can manually input the audio features of their own original song (i.e. a song that does not exist in our 19000 song data set) and predict its popularity. The UI has two components. First, a user can look up familiar songs using a search feature that connects to a Spotify API; the API will then return the 13 musical attributes of the known song. This allows the user to become familiar with the attributes. Using this information, the user can then input their estimates for an unknown or original song for each of the 13 attributes. These values are then run through our model and the predicted popularity of the song is returned to the user.

# Spotify Song Popularity Prediction
Python notebook using data from Spotify Tracks DB

https://www.kaggle.com/huanntran100/spotify-song-popularity-prediction

As I am in the initial stages of developing my data science and singer-songwriting careers, I thought it would be appropriate to bring both fields together to inform my analysis and songwriting skills. For this short project, I will be predicting the popularity of songs based purely on song metrics such as key, dancibility, and acousticness. Year, artist, era, and genre will not be included.


# Billboard Hot 100 Hit Prediction

🎶  Predicting Billboard's Year-End Hot 100 Songs using audio features from Spotify and lyrics from Musixmatch

(https://github.com/siddgood/billboard-hit-prediction#overview)

Overview

Each year, Billboard publishes its Year-End Hot 100 songs list, which denotes the top 100 songs of that year. The objective of this project was to see whether or not a machine learning classifier could predict whether a song would become a hit  _(known as  [Hit Song Science](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hit_Song_Science))_  given its intrinsic audio features as well as lyrics.

The goal of this project is to see if a song's audio characteristics and lyrics can determine a song's popularity. Data and analytics aside, music listeners around the world probably have seen music trends change over time. Although each listener has custom interests in music, it is pretty clear when we listen to a hit song or soon to be hit song (consider Old Town Road). And over time, we see the characteristics of hit songs change. So, rather than using our intuition or "gut-feeling" to predict hit songs, the purpose of the project is to see if we can use intrinsic music data to identify hits.

Hit Song Science can help music producers and artists know their audience better and produce songs that their fans would love to hear. Artists can better know what lyrics to write and tune the meaning of their song to what their fanbase would enjoy. Additionally, audio engineers can work with musicians to tweak intrinsic music qualities to make a song more popular catchy and likable.

Also, it can highlight unknown artists whose music is characteristic of top songs on the Billboard Hot 100. This allows underground artists (i.e. Lil Tecca), who might not have the publicity help from an agency or a record label, to have a chance at gaining recognition.

# SpotiScry
(https://github.com/SpotiScryers/SpotiScry)
What makes a song reach the top of the charts while others flop? Using data from Spotify, our team will determine what features influence song popularity - such as the danceability or song length. We will then predict a song’s popularity. You can check out our presentation [here](https://www.canva.com/design/DAEQUdzBtqM/JW1AI9WU9ad01VO14yr2dg/view?utm_content=DAEQUdzBtqM&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=link&utm_source=sharebutton) and our Spotify playlist our data comes from [here](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/3P6Pr6iEqvK5fl4UkgdQ7T?si=6EzeUwUwTF61b2fpo7uNGg).


# [BillboardSongRankPrediction]
(https://github.com/yashpanchamia/BillboardSongRankPrediction)

With the boom of internet, came a lot of opportunities for various types of industries such as financial markets, healthcare, retail, education etc. Music industry is not the one to be left behind, with the help of internet the audience base suddenly sky-rocketed. With millions of songs released every year in multiple languages, there was an obvious need for the user to know which song to listen to. This gave rise to various music chart archives such as Billboard.
